Engage.so destination documentation (#918)
rudderlabs/rudderstack-docs: docs/destinations/streaming-destinations/engage/engage-cloud-mode.mdx

---
title: "Engage Cloud Mode"
description:  Detailed technical documentation on sending events to Engage using the RudderStack cloud mode.
aliases: ["Engage destination"]
---

RudderStack lets you send your event data to Engage via the <Link to="/destinations/rudderstack-connection-modes/#cloud-mode">cloud mode</Link>.

<div class="infoBlock">
Find the open source transformer code for this destination in the <a href="https://github.com/rudderlabs/rudder-transformer/tree/master/v0/destinations/">GitHub repository</a>.
</div>

## Identify

You can use the <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/identify">`identify`</Link> call to create or update the user in Engage.

> RudderStack uses the <a href="https://engage.so/docs/api/users#create-a-user">Create a User</a> API to add a new user to your Engage account.

Reviewer: `RudderStack uses the <a href="https://engage.so/docs/api/users">Create or update a User</a> API to add a new user to your Engage account.`

> To update the user's email, you need to provide the **Engage Private Key** in the dashboard settings.

Reviewer: Can we specify the use of private key in Faq's.
We use it to Delete or update email of a user.

| `traits.lastName`, `traits.lastname`, `traits.last_name`, `context.traits.lastName`, `context.traits.lastname`, `context.traits.last_name` <br /> (**Optional**) | `last_name`     |     String |
| `traits.email`, `context.traits.email`, `properties.email`, `context.externalId.0.id` <br /> (**Required, if `phone` is not present**) | `email`     |     String |
| `traits.phone`, `context.traits.phone`, `properties.phone` <br /> (**Required, if `email` is not present**) | `number`     |     Number of format `^[0-9]{7,15}$` |
| Other user traits  <br /> (**Optional**) | `meta` | String / Integer / Boolean |
| `originalTimestamp` <br /> (**Optional**) | `createdAt` | Timestamp (ISO 8601 format) |

When sending `group` events to Engage it is important to note the following:

- To remove a user from a group (`"operation": "remove"`), you need to provide the `userId` in the event. 
- If the user's ID is not known, then either `email` or `phone` is required for looking up the user in Engage.

> - If a user is found with an associated `email` or `phone` (in that priority), then RudderStack links the user to the provided Engage List ID. Otherwise, it creates a new user in Engage with the provided details and then links them to the List ID.

Reviewer: If a user is found with an associated `email` or `phone` (in that priority), then Engage links the user to the provided Engage List ID. Otherwise, it creates a new user  with the provided details and then links them to the List ID.

> - RudderStack can only create a new contact. Updating a user is not supported.

Reviewer: please remove this line.

description:  Detailed technical documentation on sending events to Engage using the RudderStack cloud mode.
aliases: ["Engage destination"]
---

RudderStack lets you send your event data to Engage via the <Link to="/destinations/rudderstack-connection-modes/#cloud-mode">cloud mode</Link>.

<div class="infoBlock">
Find the open source transformer code for this destination in the <a href="https://github.com/rudderlabs/rudder-transformer/tree/master/v0/destinations/">GitHub repository</a>.
</div>

## Identify

You can use the <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/identify">`identify`</Link> call to create or update the user in Engage.

RudderStack uses the <a href="https://engage.so/docs/api/users">Create or update a User</a> API to add a new user to your Engage account.

To update the user's email, you need to provide the <Link to="/destinations/streaming-destinations/engage/setting-up-engage/#connection-settings">**Engage Private Key**</Link> in the dashboard settings.

The following table lists the RudderStack attributes and their mappings with the Engage properties:

| RudderStack property   | Engage property  | Data type |
| :-------------| :-----------------| :------|

> | `userId`, `externalId.engageId`, `traits.userid`, `traits.id`, `context.traits.userId`, `context.traits.id` <br /> (**Required**) | `uid`     |     Alphanumeric |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|  `externalId.engageId`, `userId`, `traits.userid`, `traits.id`, `context.traits.userId`, `context.traits.id` <br /> (**Required**) | `uid`     |     Alphanumeric |
```

| `traits.firstName`, `traits.firstname`, `traits.first_name`, `context.traits.firstName`, `context.traits.firstname`, `context.traits.first_name` <br /> (**Optional**) | `first_name`     |     String |
| `traits.lastName`, `traits.lastname`, `traits.last_name`, `context.traits.lastName`, `context.traits.lastname`, `context.traits.last_name` <br /> (**Optional**) | `last_name`     |     String |

> | `traits.email`, `context.traits.email`, `properties.email`, `context.externalId.0.id` <br /> (**Optional**) | `email`     |     String |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `traits.email`, `context.traits.email`, `properties.email` <br /> (**Optional**) | `email`     |     String |
```

> | `traits.phone`, `context.traits.phone`, `properties.phone` <br /> (**Optional**) | `number`     |     Number of format `^[0-9]{7,15}$` |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `traits.phone`, `context.traits.phone`, `properties.phone` <br /> (**Optional**) | `number`     |     Number *(`^[0-9]{7,15}$` format)* |
```

> | Other user traits  <br /> (**Optional**) | `meta` | String / Integer / Boolean |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Other user traits  <br /> (**Optional**) | `meta` | String/Integer/Boolean |
```

<div class="infoBlock">
To delete a user in Engage, you need to specify the <Link to="/destinations/streaming-destinations/engage/setting-up-engage/#connection-settings">Engage Private Key</Link> in the dashboard settings.
</div>

RudderStack deletes the user account in Engage using the <a href="https://engage.so/docs/api/users#delete-user">Delete User API</a>.

## Track

The <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/track">`track`</Link> call lets you capture user events along with the associated properties and send them to Engage.

RudderStack uses the <a href="https://engage.so/docs/api/users#add-user-events">Add User events API</a> to send the user events to Engage.

A sample `track` call is shown below:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.track(
  "Order Completed", {
    revenue: 30,
    currency: "USD",
    userId: "1hKOmRA4el9Z" 
  })
```

The following table lists the RudderStack attributes and their mappings with the Engage properties:

| RudderStack property   | Engage property  | Data type |
| :-------------| :-----------------| :------|

> | `userId`, `externalId.engageId`, `traits.userid`, `traits.id`, `context.traits.userId`, `context.traits.id` <br /> (**Required**) | `uid`     |     Alphanumeric |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `externalId.engageId`, `userId`, `traits.userid`, `traits.id`, `context.traits.userId`, `context.traits.id` <br /> (**Required**) | `uid`     |     Alphanumeric |
```

| `event` <br /> (**Required**) | `event` | String |
| `originalTimestamp` <br /> (**Optional**) | `timestamp` | Timestamp (ISO 8601 format) |
| `properties` <br /> (**Optional**) | `properties` | Object |

<div class="warningBlock">
The event name must be less than 32 characters. Otherwise, Engage will reject the event.
</div>

## Page

The <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/page">`page`</Link> call lets you record your website's page views with any additional relevant information about the viewed page.

RudderStack sends the page-related information to Engage using their <a href="https://engage.so/docs/api/users#add-user-events">Add User events API</a>.

The following table lists the RudderStack event properties and their mappings with the Engage properties:

| RudderStack property   | Engage property  | Data type |
| :-------------| :-----------------| :------|

> | `userId`, `externalId.engageId`, `traits.userid`, `traits.id`, `context.traits.userId`, `context.traits.id` <br /> (**Required**) | `uid`     |     Alphanumeric |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `externalId.engageId`, `userId`, `traits.userid`, `traits.id`, `context.traits.userId`, `context.traits.id` <br /> (**Required**) | `uid`     |     Alphanumeric |

| `Visited {Category} {Name} Page` <br /> (**Required**) | `event` | String | 
| `originalTimestamp` <br /> (**Optional**) | `timestamp` | Timestamp (ISO 8601 format) |
| `properties` <br /> (**Optional**) | `properties` | Object |

<div class="warningBlock">
The event name must be less than 32 characters. Otherwise, Engage will reject the event.
</div>

## Group

You can use the <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/group">`group`</Link> call to link an identified user with a Engage list.

RudderStack subscribes the user to the Engage list using their <a href="https://engage.so/docs/api/lists#subscribe-to-a-list">Subscribe to a List API</a>.

A sample `group` call is shown below:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.group("group01", {
"userId": "1",
"name": "Capsule Corp.",
"subscriber_status": "false",
"operation": "add"
});
```

You can pass the following parameters in the `group` event along with the `userId` (if known):

| RudderStack property   | Engage property  | Data type |
| :-------------| :-----------------| :------|
| `groupId` <br /> (**Required**)  | `id` | String |

> | `userId`, `externalId.engageId` <br /> (**Optional**) | `uid`     |     Alphanumeric |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `externalId.engageId`, `userId` <br /> (**Optional**) | `uid`     |     Alphanumeric |
```

The following table lists the additional property mappings with the Engage properties:

| RudderStack property   | Engage property  | Data type |
| :-------------| :-----------------| :------|
| `traits.firstName`, `traits.firstname`, `traits.first_name`, `context.traits.firstName`, `context.traits.firstname`, `context.traits.first_name` <br /> (**Optional**) | `first_name`     |     String |
| `traits.lastName`, `traits.lastname`, `traits.last_name`, `context.traits.lastName`, `context.traits.lastname`, `context.traits.last_name` <br /> (**Optional**) | `last_name`     |     String |
| `traits.email`, `context.traits.email`, `properties.email`, `context.externalId.0.id` <br /> (**Required, if `phone` is not present**) | `email`     |     String |
| `traits.phone`, `context.traits.phone`, `properties.phone` <br /> (**Required, if `email` is not present**) | `number`     |     Number of format `^[0-9]{7,15}$` |
| Other user traits  <br /> (**Optional**) | `meta` | String / Integer / Boolean |
| `originalTimestamp` <br /> (**Optional**) | `createdAt` | Timestamp (ISO 8601 format) |

When sending `group` events to Engage it is important to note the following:

> - To remove a user from a group (`"operation": "remove"`), you need to provide the `userId` in the event. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To remove a user from a group (`"operation": "remove"`), you need to provide the `userId` or  `externalId` in the event. 
```

- If the user's ID is not known, then either `email` or `phone` is required for looking up the user in Engage.
- If a user is found with an associated `email` or `phone` (in that priority), then Engage links the user to the provided Engage List ID. Otherwise, it creates a new user with the provided details and then links them to the List ID.

## FAQ

> ### How does RudderStack use the Engage Private Key?

Author: Hadn't added it initially but the dev team requested this be added.

> ### How does RudderStack use the Engage Private Key?

Author: We can remove this though, I agree.

| `traits.lastName`, `traits.lastname`, `traits.last_name`, `context.traits.lastName`, `context.traits.lastname`, `context.traits.last_name` <br /> (Optional) | `last_name`     |     String |
| `traits.email`, `context.traits.email`, `properties.email` <br /> (Optional) | `email`     |     String |
| `traits.phone`, `context.traits.phone`, `properties.phone` <br /> (Optional) | `number`     |     Number *(In `^[0-9]{7,15}$` format)* |
| Other user traits  <br /> (Optional) | `meta` | String/Integer/Boolean |
| `originalTimestamp` <br /> (Optional) | `createdAt` | Timestamp *(ISO 8601 format)* |
| `externalId.engageListId`, `config.listIds` <br /> (Optional) | `lists` | Array of List ID |

<div class="infoBlock">
RudderStack uses <code class="inline-code">externalId.engageListId</code> or <code class="inline-code">config.listIds</code> as a fallback value in case <code class="inline-code">userId</code>, <code class="inline-code">externalId.engageId</code>, <code class="inline-code">traits.userId</code>, <code class="inline-code">traits.id</code>, or <code class="inline-code">context.traits.id</code> is absent in the event.
</div>

### Deleting a user

> You can leverage RudderStack's <Link to="/api/data-regulation-api/">Data Regulation API</Link> to delete a user in Engage by using the <Link to="/api/data-regulation-api/#adding-a-suppression-with-delete-regulation">Suppression with Delete regulation</Link>.

Author: ```suggestion
You can delete a user in Engage using the <Link to="/api/data-regulation-api/#adding-a-suppression-with-delete-regulation">Suppression with Delete regulation</Link> of the RudderStack <Link to="/api/data-regulation-api/">Data Regulation API</Link>.
```

<div class="infoBlock">
To delete a user in Engage, you need to specify the <Link to="/destinations/streaming-destinations/engage/setting-up-engage/#connection-settings">Engage Private Key</Link> in the dashboard settings.
</div>

> A sample regulation request body for deleting a user in Engage is shown below:

Author: ```suggestion
A sample regulation request body for deleting a user in Engage is shown below:
```
